Averting Obstacles through Sitātapatrā
by Lhodrak Namkha Gyaltsen

chomden dukkar lhatsok nam
Bhagavatī Sitātapatrā, and your hosts of deities,
tutob tokpa mi nga shying
Through your unobstructed power and strength,
tukjé mönlam tutsenpé
And the force of your compassionate aspirations,
dak gi jitar solwa shyin
May you fulfil these prayers of ours:
sangye tenpa darwa dang
Cause the teachings of Buddha to flourish,
semchen dé dang denpar dzö
And all beings to gain happiness!
gyujor yöndak khor ché kyi
For our patrons and those around us,
chak ché nyam nga dok tu sol
May tragedy and disaster be averted!
milam tsenma ngenpa *dok1
May all bad signs in dreams be dispelled!
tak dang tendrel ngenpa *dok
May all inauspicious omens and circumstances be averted!
dra dré samjor ngenpa *dok
May the malevolence and harm of enemies and hostile forces be averted!
té ngen gyechu tsashyi *dok
May the eighty-four evil omens be averted!
yedrok sumgya drukchu *dok
May the three hundred and sixty forms of daily suffering be averted!
né rik shyigya tsashyi *dok
May the four hundred and four types of disease2 be averted!
gek rik tongtrak gyechu *dok
May the eighty thousand types of obstacle-making forces be averted!
dümin chiwa nam gyé *dok
May the eight kinds of untimely death be averted!
yé kyi dü du yöpa *dok
May initial misfortune be averted!3
mé kyi si ru langpa *dok
May persistent misfortune be averted!4
tralwé shé du köpa *dok
May fatal conflict be averted!
pamé dursi langpa *dok
May misfortune arising from mistreatment of ancestral spirits be averted!
mi la né du tongwa *dok
May sickness among men and women be averted!
chuk la gökha jepa *dok
May loss in our resources be averted!
nam gyi dalkha tebpa *dok
May calamities in the atmosphere be averted!
sa yi dukda yöpa *dok
May calamities on the earth be averted!
mewa parkha ngenpa *dok
May unfavourable signs in astrological squares and trigrams be averted!
kek dang pungsi langpa *dok tu sol
May astrological hindrances and recurrent calamity be averted!

This practice for averting obstacles through Sitātapatrā was composed by Drupchen Lekyi Dorje.

| Rigpa Translations, 2008.
↑ The asterisks mark the points at which practitioners clap their hands.↑ The four hundred and
four types of disease consist of: the hundred and one karmic diseases, the hundred and
one diseases of this lifetime, the hundred and one diseases caused by harmful evil spirits,
and the hundred and one superficial diseases.↑ Alak Zenkar Rinpoche gives the example of
someone whose child dies at a very early age. It is the first time that tragedy has struck,
and if not averted it can become persistent tragedy.↑ Alak Zenkar Rinpoche gives the example
of an accident blackspot where many people die as an example of recurrent calamity.