The Swift Steed of Garuḍa, King of Birds1
An Instruction for Travelling to Sukhāvatī, Based on the Visualization and Recitation of Uṣnīṣa-Sitātapatrā
by Karma Chakmé

namaḥ śākyamunaye
Since the extremely wrathful Sitātapatrā is a form of Pāṇḍarāvasinī, the supreme consort of
Amitāyus, this practice will lead to rebirth in Sukhāvatī, realm of great bliss. The mighty
sage emanated Sitātapatrā from his crown (uṣnīṣa), in order to bind the male and female,
together with their retinues, under oath. Thus Sitātapatrā emerged as a profound practice
for averting harmful forces. Because the dhāraṇī-sūtra resounded from the sage’s crown (uṣnīṣa),
while his speech remained silent, it was named uṣnīṣā. Although the dhāraṇī-sūtra
is a kriyā-tantra, it has been practiced by many siddhas such as Jetāri and Vajrāsana in the
manner of a Highest Yoga tantra. If you follow this practice and thus also practice it
like them, it will become very easy for you. It is a practice that condenses the authentic
traditions of the Nyingma tantras, as passed from Prahevajra2 and Mañjuśrīmitra to Vimalamitra;
the terma treasures of Guru Traktung Nakpo; an entire ocean of sādhanas from India;
and the many Tibetan practices written by Karmapa Wangchuk Dorje3 and others. Thus, it is
an easy practice and its blessing is great. To practice it is to hold aloft an indestructible
vajra sword that can avert disease, obstacles, black magic, evil spells and all oppressing
forces. If you wish to travel to Sukhāvatī, this practice will take you there, mounted
on the garuḍa, king of birds. Therefore, make this your daily practice:
ah chö nam ma sam jömé tongpanyi
Āḥ, phenomena are emptiness, beyond words, beyond thought and description.
om gyi tsenpé dukkar yong gyur lé
A white umbrella marked with oṃ arises and
dren dzok damyé yermé rangnyi ni
From it, instantaneously perfected through mere recollection,Samaya- and jñānasattva indivisible,
dorjé tsuk tor chirdok chenmö ku
I appear as Vajroṣṇīṣā, the Great Dispeller, with a thousand heads —
u tong dün shyal gekpa nyigya kar
In front, two hundred white, mesmerizing, beautiful,
yé shyal nyigya jikrung göpa ser
To the right, two hundred gold, fearsomely laughing,
gyab shyal nyigya marpo shé dang ngam
At the back, two hundred red, furiously raging,
yön shyal janggu nyigya nyingjé shyi
To the left, two hundred green, compassionately gazing,
teng shyal ngönpo nyigya drak la tum
On top, two hundred blue, wrathful, ferocious.
u rer dorjé tsen tak chen sum sum
Each has three eyes and is marked with a vajra.
kudok kar shying chen mik jewa bum
I am white in colour, with a trillion4 eyes
zurmik dré dang lok tar drak tu zik
Sending side-long glances, wide open and awake, voracious and electric.
yé chak ngabgya yön chak ngabgya yi
My five hundred right and five hundred left arms
tamché sam chö raldri barwa char
All wield blazing swords that cut through thoughts.
shyab yé ngabgya kyangwé jik kün nen
My five hundred right legs stretch out, extended,Stomping beneath them all that is frightening.
shyab yön ngabgya kumpé dön kün nen
My five hundred left legs are drawn in, contracted,Stomping beneath them all obstructors.
sangye jewa trak dün chöpen chang
From my head hang silken garlands adorned by seventy million buddhas.
u tsuk dukkar dün ni tsek mar khor
My crown knot is adorned by seven spinning parasols, on top of one another.
bapu tamché yeshe özer bar
The hairs of my body blaze with the light of primordial wisdom.
lhadzé naza shyitrö gyen dangden
My garments are bedecked with ornaments, peaceful and wrathful.
tralwar namnang tukkar om karpo
In my forehead resides Vairocana, in his heart the white syllable oṃ.
drinpar nang té tukkar ah marpo
In my throat resides Amitābha, in his heart the red syllable āḥ.
tuk mé dorsem tukkar hung ngönpo
In my heart resides Vajrasattva, in his heart the blue syllable hūṃ.
tuk ü da teng om yikkar pö tar
At my heart centre, upon a moon disc, is an oṃ with surrounding mantra,The syllables all in
white,
ngak treng ö kyi drib sal tutob gyé
And from the mantra garland streams a radiance of light,Clearing all obscurations and enhancing
power and strength.
yaso tro chu ma so tromo chu
My upper teeth are the ten male wrathful ones and my lower teeth the female ten.
mara mepung raldri ngar mé ché
A blazing mass of fire curls around my mouth.My tongue is a sword, razor sharp.
drinpa nyida rang lümé pung bar
In my throat reside the sun and moon.
nöjé tamché shyob tul sekpar gyur
The blazing inferno of my bodyBurns to ash all harm-doers and obstacle-makers.
Although you may lack actual realization, it is sufficient simply to practice the above visualization.
As Guru Traktung Nakpo explains, simply practicing this will free one from oppression,
sorcery, spells and the like. Thus, reciting it is of great importance.

hung dorjé tsuktor chirdokpa chenmo
Hūṃ, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller,
chak tong ngawa chenmo
Great goddess with a thousand arms,
u tong ngawa chenmo
Great goddess with a thousand heads,
chen jewa gya tong ngawa chenmo
Great goddess with a trillion eyes,
dorjé miché barwé tsentak chen
With blazing indestructible vajra-characteristics,
dorjé yangpa chenpö sa sum gyi kyilkhor la ngadzema
Great Exalted Vajra, ruler of the maṇḍala of the three plains of existence—5
künné dakchak minor khor dang chepa tamché la nyin dang tsen du sung du so
I pray to you, protect our families, our friends, wealth and possessions,Both day and night!
teyata | om analé analé | bikadé bikadé | baire baire | benza dhari | bhendha bhendha ni | benza
pani pé hung hung pé pé soha | hung drum bhendha pé | mama raksha raksha soha
tadyathā | oṃ anale anale | viṣade viṣade | vaire vaire | vajradhari | bandha bandhani | vajrapāṇi
phaṭ hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā | hūṃ drūṃ bandha phaṭ | mama rakṣa rakṣa svāhā |
dak dang sungjé lü ngak yi sum nenpa dang chingpa tamché ché ché trol tro nenpa dang chingpa
dang dampa tamché sarva apanaya soha shyiwa shanting kuru yé soha
As for all oppression and binding forces of body, speech and mind Both my own and those of all
who need protection,Break them, break them! Stop them, stop them! Drive away all oppressive,
binding, chaining forces! sarva apanaya svāhā! Pacify them utterly! śāntiṅ-kuruye svāhā!
Recite this at best seven times, at middling five times or at the very least three times. After
that, recite the heart and quintessence mantras, as you please and are able.

om sarva tatagatoshnisha hung pé | hung mama hung ni soha
oṃ sarvatathāgatoṣṇīṣa hūṃ phaṭ | hūṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā |
The heart mantra.
om mama hung ni soha
oṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā |
The quintessence mantra.

ditar gom dé jepé sönam kyi
Through the merit of this meditation and recitation,
mi tsang lü diwor bar gyur ma tak
As soon as we have discarded this unclean body,
dewachen du dzü té kyewar shok
May we miraculously take birth in Sukhāvatī, realm of great bliss.
kyé ma tak tu sa chu rab drö né
As soon as we are born there, having traversed the bhūmis,
trulpé chok chur shyendön jepar shok
May we send our emanations in all directions, to benefit beings.
Then look, vivid and awake, at the mind of the meditator. Rest within the clarity in which there
is nothing whatsoever to see. Even if you cannot focus on this practice on a daily basis,
continuously recite the two short mantras throughout all your daily activities. Kyema!
We have but little merit from past lives!And so, with neither loan nor any use of money,
Still we are forced to repay the debt.Black magic and sorcery hold us in their sway,Conjured
by Buddhist and non-Buddhist alike.Disease and adversities continuously torment us.Although
we reflect on death, and yearn for the sacred Dharma,We lack the good fortune to act
in accordance with the Dharma.We do not know when death will come, and we have no means of
averting it.Alas! We will never know where next we’ll be born.Great suffering awaits us,
wherever we take birth amongst the six classes of beings.For anyone to whom these thoughts
occur,This practice and instruction should be taken as a daily commitment.In the past, King
Trisong DeutsenInvited a hundred scholars from far and wideTo translate into Tibetan the
collected words of the Buddha, along with the commentaries.For them, there was no practice
more profound than thisIn protecting the King and averting black magic.When this practice
was performed as such,All the heretics of India, Hashang and his Chinese followers,And
all the shamans of Tibet were unable to harm the King.And later, when the Oriat Mongols invaded
Tibet,Obliterating ruthlessly the Karmapa’s teachings, Because of their daily recitation
of the Sitātapatrā practice,No harm or detriment came down upon them.6Therefore, there
is no practice more profound than this for averting black magic.If you recite this practice,
the condensed meaning of the dhāraṇī,You will obtain the merit and blessings of infinite
buddhas.All without exception will be cleansed and purified —All karmic obscurations,
the five crimes with immediate retribution.Your life-span and merit will increase and flourish,And,
immediately after passing, you will take birth in Sukhāvatī.Thus the adversities
of this life will be averted and you will reside in pure realms in lives to come.Hence,
perfect Buddhahood, the irreversible and ultimate goal, will be close at hand. I, Rāga Asya,
for the benefit of myself and others, compiled this practice that brings together the root
text and the pith instructions. It was transcribed by Pema Tarchin. Any errors that are
here, such as misspelled mantras,I confess them before those with the wisdom eye.Through
this merit, may the obstacles of all beings be pacified,And may they take rebirth in Sukhāvatī!Once
there, may they accomplish the immeasurable benefit of others!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Laura Dainty, Stefan Mang; ed. Libby Hogg), 2017. Revised
2018, with thanks to Adam Pearcey, Peter Woods, and Han Kop.
↑ Here Karma Chakmé draws an analogy between a garuḍa and a stallion. The garuḍa is the fastest
among all birds. Thus, mounting the garuḍa is the fastest way that one can travel to Sukhāvatī.
Riding the garuḍa is like riding a great stallion or the fastest horse. (Oral clarification
by Khenpo Pema Namgyal)↑ Garab Dorje↑ The 9th Karmapa (1556-1603)↑ That is 10
to the power of 12.↑ That is all beings living above, below and on the ground.↑ This is a
reference to the invasion of the Oriat Mongols to Tibet in the years 1641-1642 under the leadership
of Güshi Khan (1582-1655). Although claiming to be Buddhist, they became enemies
of the Kagyü school and attacked the Kagyü monasteries. Although the invaders engaged in
such violent actions, nevertheless no harm came to them, because they practiced Sitātapatrā.
Thus Karma Chakmé states that the practice of Sitātapatrā is so powerful that even if enemies
practice it they will be protected. (Oral clarification by Khenpo Pema Namgyal)